What do you mean by "came to drop...?"
Satyakam himself owned a car, brother...!
Yes of course..!
A red one...!
Then..??
But yesterday he came
in a different car...!
Around what time?
Uhh...
I didn't excatly notice brother Byomkesh...
But I guess before midnight....!
I was....
behind the trees in front
of Choudhury Villa...
I stood there, to catch that fellow!
Infested with mosquitoes...
it was hell, brother...!
Suddenly....I saw...
Listen Annapurna!
Don't you dare disturb me anymore!
Now go!!
Oh shit..!
And then you ran away, ,,?
Why..??
What else!
The car didn't move from there...
I felt I won't get the chance to...
catch him in seclusion.
By the way....Nanda....
You must have noticed the car's number..!
No!
It was so dark...
and moreover the car
was too far from me..!
No no Ajit... Ajit....! One
minute....one minute..!
Nanda...!
What was the woman's name you just said...?
..uhh...
God..! By what name was
Satyakam calling her...?!
..uhmm...
Listen Annapurna...!
Don't you dare disturb me anymore...!
Oh yes...!
Some Annapurna...!
Then he cursed her in English...!
Annapurna....??
Anna....purna.....
"She's one of the designated
desires of Satyakam Das...!"
"Madam Annapurna..!"
..hmm....!
And then you know brother Byomkesh...!
Hmm..?
I had just crossed the
lane by then...
I heard a deafening noise..!!
Sound of firing.
Yes... even I felt so...!
I got scared and ...ran away...!
Just day before yesterday,
Doctor Sailen was arrested,
..by the Lalbazar area Police.
Hence didn't have the guts....!
Ajit....!
C'mon, feeling hungry, let's go home..!
Satya must be waiting for us with food...
Nanda....!
If only you stayed back
yesterday to punch Satyakam...!
Maybe he would have been alive...
maybe.....
Anyway... leave it....!
C'mon...!
You're not allowed to leave this
locality for a while now...!
huhh..??
Keep it in mind Nanda...!
You...!!
- Hello....
My name is Byomkesh Bakshi.
But not detective, I'm a truth-seeker.
Anyway, I need to talk to you...
But how come you knew...
- Since day before yesterday...
On Saturday night.
In this car of yours....Satyakam Das....
stopped in front his
house Choudhury Villa...
Needless to say, you were
also inside the car...
You cannot deny it, unfortunately....
there's a witness to this incident.
I was...
So....?
As of now, nothing important...
Now what you will tell me....
is about that night...
the night, when Satyakam was murdered,
what were you doing over there.....
..and what conversation
did you have with him...?
If I say, that's a personal talk....?
I can't tell you...?
- Yes you can say that.
You can say that.....
But remember....this is a murder case....!
You are the last person to
see Satyakam alive....!
And let me tell you another thing...
do you know,
Satyakam had come to my
place three days back?
He himself said to me, that someone wants
to murder him,
and I solve his murder mystery....!
Hence, till this murder mystery
doesn't get solved......
I won't keep calm, Madam Annapurna...!
Rest is your choice...!
This isn't London Satyakam...!
In our country, this matter
may appear petty to a man...
but for a woman, it's a a major issue.
But above all, I love you.....!
About us....
Listen. listen....! Just listen...
Without the father's name....
a child's identity is
nothing, alright....??
I have a friend who's a doctor.
We'll go there... and....
no one will know...!
What are you saying...!!
What exactly are you saying....!!
Why...????
Do you even know what you are saying...??
I won't....
marry you.
Is that clear...??
Do whatever you want....
Okay...?
I won't....
won't leave you so easily....!
Don't try to give me arrest-threats....!
I am beyond the reach for such threats....!
Now go...
Go... go now...!
go...
Go...!
You are still here...?
Huh...?
Listen Annapurna...!
Don't you dare disturb me anymore...!
If I really wanted to murder Satyakam,
I would have done that already.
I even had the opportunity...!
Satyakam refused to take the
child's responsibility.
But don't you have any....
..anger...
or rage against him..?
Rage...??
Yes I had..!
He's dead now....!
Still angry...??
It doesn't matter to me any
longer Mr. Byomkesh...!
Was this ring...
..gifted to you by Satyakam Das?
Believe me....
Sister-in-law... I need some tea..!
Just returned from the police station.
Satyakam's post mortem is complete....
Mr. Ushapati and the rest of the family
are now going for his cremation.
And Mr. Bhabani...
..is totally indifferent
about finding the murderer.
The death ocurred between
midnight and 2 o'clock...
and the bore diameter
of the bullet is 0.45...
I got it sketched...!
The bullet entered from under the scapula,
..the left scapula...
..pierced the heart,
..and is stuck on the
third rib of the cage.
The bullet entered in an upward manner,
..and more towards the
centre from the side.
And there are no other injuries...
Traces of alcohol have
been found in his stomach,
Which is aboslutely normal to me...!
Sister-in-law...!
Some tea please...!
Yes..! Here I am..!
Here you go...
Give him first, he needs it more...!
Thank you...!
Take it.
The bullet has entered
in an upward manner...
From the side... more towards the center...
That means....the shooter...
targeted from the left side of the road,
from inside the bushes.
I have a question.
What..?
Why did the shooter squat and fire?
"Why did the shooter... squat and fire...."
I can't tell it brother...
The person didn't consult with me...!
No no... think about it Ajit...!
Thoughts that you all have...
Not ours, what the post
mortem report says...
- Yes, whatever 'post mortem report'...
Rather the police feels,
..that the murderer was hiding inside...
behind the gate...!
What if, the bullet wasn't fired from
inside the bushes..?
From outside the gate...
..if someone,
from inside the car...
From where on earth did the car come...!
Annapurna..
Ohh yes... right..!!
Alright....!
That means....
if someone shoots
sitting inside the car,
..the bullet might enter
in an upward manner..!
She wears the ring gifted
to her by Satyakam...
moreover, she is carrying
his child in her womb.
God... I'm getting confused Ajit...!
And to top it...
..after meeting Annapurna,
getting startled isn't abnormal...
Ohh, stop it!
By the way Byomk..
- Silence...!
Satyakam opened the gate, and
walked till the main door...
..he walked till upto that much...
Then the shooter murdered him...!
Why...??
Here... here...! Ajit! Ajit....!
Why wasn't he shot here only..???
Would have shot and run away
so easily from here itself...!
Then...?
Come!
Where is the bullet inside his body?
Where is the bullet inside his body!
To the left..!
Left..!
Here..!
But my point is...
..what if, he wasn't shot
from inside the bushes,
Come come...!
There's more to ponder about. And about...
that foilpaper disc stuck on the door..!
Who glued it there, when, and why...??
You see my dear Satyakam....!
That thing over there,
is the doorway to
your murder mystery...!
Every..everything is getting
so complicated Byomkesh...!
Let me complicate it even more...!
One doesn't need to...
carry a torch, while walking down the
streets of Kolkata...
Why did Satyakam need an electric torch??
He might have needed it,
while walking the stretch,
from the gateway to the main door...
What...??
while walking the stretch,
from the gateway to the main door...
Think Ajit... think.....think over it...
Can I get some tea, sister-in-law...?
Yes....
Ajit...!
Is Satyakam's cremation complete...?
Yes...!
Which means,
the family members had
stepped out of their house....!
Had the police searched yesterday,
they would have got hold of the revolver
inside the house only.
We won't get it today.
That means,
..murderer is in the family...??!!
Have to speak to Sitangshu in private....
Satya, please bring me some tea..!
Surely....
Yesterday, I heard in the
local police station,
..that you had killed the OC of
Rath Tala police station...??
See... like you loved your father,
similarly, you love your own sister...?
Isn't it so...??
Let me ask you a straightforward
question, Sitangshu..!
I would appreciate,
if you are equally
straighforward in answering.....!
Ever wanted to murder Satyakam.....?
Ever..? At any point of time...?
Y... you want to say
something brother Satya...?
Just looking...
Consult a doctor,
if you are always in the
mood for some filthy fun!
I see you eyeing her once more...
I'll chop off your
masculinity in a second...!
Get lost!
Go away!
How many times have I told you.....
..to close the door from
inside when sleeping!
Close it now!
Regarding Satyakam,
your uncle and aunty must
have had a lot of quarrels...?
Quarrels...??
Yes, quarrels.
I mean... verbal fights,
arguments, disagreements....
Uncle and aunty don't
talk to each other.....
Since when....?
Since I am seeing both of them.
And... how is your aunty
as a person, by the way?
Is she quarrelsome in nature?
Not at all...!
She's an amazing person by nature...!
Byomkesh Bakshi speaking...
Hello, I'm Ushapati speaking....
Yes Mr. Ushapati... tell me....
Probably you have heard... that,
today early morning....
Satyakam's cremation took place.
I went to...
the police station a while back.
They couldn't...
..provide me with any news...
That's why I called you to ask you...
how is your investigation proceeding..?
If only you can let me know...
It'll take some time Mr. Ushapati.
How is your wife now?
Same as before...
The concern is mainly reagarding her....!
She's completely shattered right now...!
I was thinking...
of taking her to somewhere...
for a few days.
Away from all this.
Maybe that might be good for her.
Hmm... yes..!
By the way, have you decided where...?
No no... not yet...
but...
..anywhere outside Kolkata.
By the way... Mr. Byomkesh,
The police will allow us to go, right..?
If you inform the police before leaving,
I don't think they will object.
Better...
I'll do accordingly.
You know Mr. Byomkesh,
Kolkata seems like hell now...!
So...
That's it for now...
By the way Mr. Ushapati...!
Yes...?
Will the shop stay closed, since
you will be outstation...?
No no.....
That is not possible....
Our cashier...
Mr. Dhananjay...?
He'll be in charge.
and I'll also tell Sitangshu to take
the responsibility.... from now onwards.
I am all alone.
By the way... will you,
go to the shop right now...?
No Mr. Byomkesh, not today....
I don't feel like.
Ok fine. Bye.
Yes... bye...
Mr. Dhananjay!
Hello...!
I came for a different purpose today....
Few of your old colleagues were saying...
and even I also felt, that...
Your writing is not just
limited to calculations..!
There's a....
talent hidden, somewhere
inside you... isn't it?
Now if only I could get
to witness your talent...
One minute....one minute...!
You have something....??
Here it is...!!
"Reciting a wedding
invitation in poetry form"
"With best wishes,
Dhananjay Mondal and the
'Suchitra Emporium' family."
What did you see in these
gibberish lines, brother?
Focus on its information...
and not on the literary
aspect of it Mr. Author...!
Information? Here..?
"Union of souls..."
"The wedding bells ringing...."
"By clasping Madam Suchitra's
hand into his hand..."
"Mr. Usha became pati (husband)"
Dear Mr. No-Observant...!
read the whole thing thoroughly....!
See brother..!
This marriage of Madam
Suchitra and Mr. Ushapati,
pulled out the inner
poet of Mr. Dhananjay...!
I can't observe anything more than that...!
Notice their marriage date for God's sake!
13th February, 1915.
Still in darkness.....
Can't imagine...!
What happened?
When I had asked Satyakam about his age,
he had mentioned his
date of birth, remember?
Yes that I remember, but uhhh....
don't remember the date....
That's why you are an author,
and I'm a truth-seeker...!
I remember it!
Yes, you are a genius! You
remember the dates... years...
Wait...!
How are these dates connected
to Satyakam's murder...??
Very deeply connected..use
your grey matter...!
See...!
My grey matter is in grave danger
after reading that poem...!
Tell me clearly, who is the murderer?
You still can't guess who
is the murderer...??!!
No....!
I can't...!
Who is it...?!
What's for lunch Satya....?
What...!!
Feed him nothing but
bittergourd sister-in-law....
..he is undoubtedly degrading....!
Now tell....
Who is the murderer...?
What happened...! Tell!
Did you see....!
Brother-in-law...!
Yes....?
What about those tickets...?
Tickets!
Wait...!
First let this matter get solved....
It's at the verge of conclusion....
Read his face...!
Is it so...?
Byomkesh....!
Byomkesh...!!
When will be the curtain call... brother??
Getting imapatient...!
Patience....patience....!
Here we go again...!
Just a little bit...!
Almost...!!
Wait Ajit... wait...!
Satya...!
Yes...?
Hold this for a moment...
Yes, tell me...!
Yes, I was waiting for your call only....!
Sure sure...!....Coming...!
Fine I'll go alone...!
Okay...
right....!
Ajit...!
Say...!
Go to Howrah Station and check the status
of the tickets....!
I'm going out for a while Satya...!
There you are....!
See I've come alone...!
By the way, I have
something to show you...!
I'll keep it here.....
It glitters....!
It's plain foil paper...!
It was glued on the main door.....!
And no one in the family knows why.....
Even you don't... I guess?
I have one request Mr. Ushapati...!
Once this case gets solved...
..and I believe it'll be in a short while,
I want to take this thing with me.
I have something more to give you...!
You... got this....
You must be knowing the handwriting...??
The only poetic creation of
Mr. Dhananjay in his life....!
He had preserved it in a way...
you can't even imagine...!
Yes... but....
Why to me....
It's your wedding invitation
written as poetry...!
Though my curiosity lies in the....
dates written there....!
Check it...!
You got married to Madam
Suchitra on 13th February 1915.
And Satyakam was born.....
7th July, 1915....??
Your child was born before you could complete
five months of your married life....!
Now, will you speak out the truth...??
Mr. Ushapati...??
huhh...?
I was....
..just a shop-assistant of 'Suchitra
Emporium' at that time....
You are staying with your sister's in laws,
since such a long time....
you must be having a
lot of problems....!
Yes... a bit... Sir....
This is....
..a matter of shame for a
jewel employee like you...!
No no....!
From now onwards, you'll
stay at my place....!
At your place...?
No..no Sir...
Colleagues will say a lot of things Sir...!
And moreover, I am not
your special relative...
that I'll stay at your place...
Uhh... well...
What if... you stay as a
special relative of mine....?
I didn't understand Sir....
I want my....
daughter Suchitra,
on whose name I've built
'Suchitra Emporium',
to get married to you.
You know,
..when I was a kid,
I read in fantasy tales....
A beggar getting married to,
a princess.....!
My story is.....
just like that.
Suchitra...!
..Suchitra....!
Now I understood...!
Why you married off your daughter...
to one of your poor employees...!
See Ushapati....!
Suchitra is immature....
A motherless daughter...
The present societal illness that
is trending,
made her commit such a mistake....
No one is truthful these days,
not even family members...
Let's keep it a secret to
the outside world....!
Anyway...!
What's done cannot be undone....!
My daughter is a gem of a person...!
Pardon me...!
But I won't be able to take
this dirty responsibility...!
Listen Usha....!
Listen...!
Don't get excited...!
Listen to me....!
Come to the shop with me...!
No!
I won't work there anymore...!
I am going away...!
Wait....!!
From today, you are fifty percent owner of
'Suchitra Emporium"...
my partner....!
Yes.....!
I had already mentioned it in my will.
From today....
just as I give the
orders in the shop...
all will be obey you as well..!
Come to office....!
Even though the princess
had an unremovable stain,
I saw half of the empire
being offered to me....!
This is....
your office...!
And....
this is your chair....!
You'll sit here....!
Go!
And sit....!
Just go and sit.....!
And this is your.....
partnership documents.
Read it properly before you....
sign it...!
A lot of money....
I couldn't resist!
Since then... I....
..statrted staying at my in-laws' place.
but....
..with my wife....
I had no relation....
But outsiders....
didn't know anything about this....
Mr. Dhananjay....!
- Yes...!
I am going to take Suchitra to London for
her treatment...!
That's why,
uhh...
I have to stay there for almost a year...
Ohh....
That means Mr. Ushapati
will also accompany you..?
No no....!
If he goes who will be
in charge of the shop?
He is the boss of this
emporium in my absence...!
You all will cooperate
with him in every way.
Yes... definitely... definitely...!
After almost one year....
My father-in-law returned from London.
Suchitra was holding a
baby boy in her arms...
But whether he was two, or five months old,
couldn't be guessed at all...!
Here.... - He's such a sweetheart..!
- Just a bit more...
It's almost finished... have it...
And from then onwards,
what started, was our...
life, devoid of any emotions.
Now sleeping time....!
Years went by.....
and likewise....
Satyakam started growing up.....
But the blood of his
characterless father.....
was flowing in his veins....!
And that's why....
before anything could be said to him,
he started developing a
new characteristic trait....!
As he grew up, Satyakam...
clearly started showing
traits of his father...!
You know Mr. Byomkesh....!
Any stain is removable.
Except....stain of the character....!
It leaves its impression behind.....
He had earned his grandfather's
affection in such a way,
..that even if he knew everything,
he couldn't say a word to him...
Now Mr. Byomkesh, you say....!
Can any man ever love his
wife's an illegal child?
And a child, whose
character is like this...!
That's why Satyakam, between
me and my wife Suchitra...
stood as a barrier...
When did Satyakam come to know
about his birth identity?
After my father-in-law passed away.
He.....
..had mentioned in his will his
share of the emporium for Satyakam.
Satya...!
You are drunk...???!!
I am....
still drinking....!
Satya...!
I have told you a lot of times.....
not to enter the house like
this at such late hours...!
This is my house....
I'll enter whenever I want...!
Devil may care....!
Listen.....I was saying.....that.....
My goodness...!
You also have a say....!
Carry on...!
Satyakam...!
I will not stand such filthy
behavior in my house!
Did you just say 'filthy behaviour'?
Was I the first to start
it in this house...?
huhh??
What..?!
There's no answer, naturally...!
After my father-in-law passed away....
slowly, the shop's condition....
started degrading.
Satyakam started splurging
a lot of money.....
on his extravagant lecherous lifestyle.
Infact Mr. Byomkesh,
..women of well-bred families,
stopped coming to the shop due to him.
Right at this point,
something happened....
Because of this offspring,
an innocent person got.....
nothing but pain from
me, all through his life,
Just see what a demon I have
reared brother Sahodeb...!
I can't take it anymore....!
One after the other... his activities....!
Oh God....!
How do I repay for my mistakes....!
I... I just can't take it anymore....!
Madam...!
Atleast have some water....!
I won't be able to gulp it
even brother Sahodeb...!
You go... I have to be alone for some time.
Go....!
Go......
Wait.
What happened?
The next door lady came and....
insulted madam like anything...!
Why...!
Junior master ...with her daughter...
Ok fine...!
And that day, you decided....
to end Satyakam's life.
A father murdered his son...
no one would even believe that....!
Other than that, Satyakam
had too many enemies...!
So naturally, they will
be suspected more...!
Stilll...
The way you executed the murder,
that you don't get
noticed at all......!
And that's why,
you thought of a foolproof plan....
You first got hold of a foil paper disc.
Then, on Saturday night....
after everyone in the house fell asleep,
and before Satyakam reached home.
..around.... 11:00 - 11:30 I guess,
you glued the disc to the main door.
Indeed...! What an idea....
to attract his vision...!
And, you definitely had got hold of a
revolver beforehand....!
Brother Bashir...!
Someone has come to meet you...!
And then, probably...
around midnight,
..a drunk Satyakam, entered
from the main gate, and....
and, exactly as per your plan....
could see the disc with his torch.
What's that shining over there....?
..and to get a better glimpse
of it, as he leaned towards it,
Oh no...! Junior master....!
What happened to your junior master...!
What happened to you....!?
You had framed it in such a way.....
so it seemed that he
was shot from behind....!
No one will ever imagine, that he was shot
from above...!
Had I not seen that disc,
even I would have
imagined the same....!
But what I still cannot figure out is,
you did not hide the disc...!
Why??
Because I didn't know
that you will come....!
Did you feel slightly bad at that time....?
Is it??
Mr. Byomkesh...!
Since the last 19 years, I and
my husband...
have been living in a graveyard in the
name of married life...
So I just want....
to forget everything about the past....
and start anew.
just want some peace....!
I would request you...
not to churn the case anymore...!
Fine...
I won't.
But why..?
You won't...
inform the police?
Uhh.....
No!
I won't..!
But it won't be....
lawful as per your
principles, Mr. Byomkesh...!
Yes... yes....
you are right....
But see, Satyakam had told me....
..to find out the cause of his murder....
to discover the truth!
not to hand over the
murder to the police...!
And there's another law
beyond the law itself...
humanity....!
And this... okay fine....that's it.
Take care....
Now you both tell me....
Did I do anything wrong?
No...!
But I thought that...
Annapurna is the murderer...!
No no...!
See...
She is the murderer.....
of the father of the child
she's carrying in her womb.....
These two facts don't go
along, as per my belief.
No Satya, she truely loved Satyakam...!
No no..Byomkesh...
Your heart melted by seeing
Annapurna's tears...
You cannot say that!
When the Pandavas saw Draupadi crying, they
announced war at Kurukshetra..! (Mythology)
What value do you know of tears....!
Bachelor...!
Don't talk rubbish....!
Why are you getting angry Ajit....?
Love strikes all, young or old....!
I firmly believe you know,
Mr. Ushapati wouldn't have murdered,
if this wasn't the Springtime...!
Thank God Mr. Dhananjay kept his
poetic creation safe with him...!
Not again...! "Usha became
pati (husband)" ...!
Don't be so rude Ajit...!
It's his only existing
creation of literature...!
Absolutely..! - No you just think...!
Who would keep it as a keepsake
all through these years...!
I couldn't have solved the
mystery without seeing it...!
Anyway...! That's it..! Brother-in-law...!
Yes...?
What about the tickets...?
Ohh right...!
Here you go...! - Ohh...!
You got them....! - Hmm..
But... why two tickets..? Aren't you going?
Leave it sister-in-law....!
I won't be disturbing you two there.
My character is not degrading
like your husband's...!
Thank heavens for that...!
Satya...!
C'mon...!
Wait..! Where are you going..?
At Bichitra theatre....!
"Characterless!" (Movie Name)
Ohh... that's why she's so
decked up since evening...!
C'mon let's go..! Let's not
waste any more time...!
Let's go.
Hey..! What will I do here
all by myself now....!
You want to go, but alas....!
Nothing to say...!
But why again so full of
literary theories my dear...??
The reason is....
Now you will have to write
about this case of mine...
in poetic verses...!
C'mon Satya...!
Detective story... in
the form of poetry...?
I have a feeling, this literary work
of yours will be revolutionary...!
What say Banerjee...?
Let's...?
C'mon... let's go...!
Detective story in the form of poetry....?
"Let's...!"